
h2. AMALTHEA Model Migration

h3. Why model migration is required ?

EMF based models are the instances of ECORE meta model (which is updated for each release). 

As there is a tight dependency between model instance and the corresponding meta model, old EMF models can not be loaded with the newer release of meta model.

bq. Example : Due to the change in the namespace of the meta model, loading of model files from prior versions would fail with the latest version

This problem can be solved by explicitly migrating the model files from the prior versions to be compatible to the latest meta model version


h3. AMALTHEA model migration

As described above, same scenario is also applicable for AMALTHEA models as they are instances of EMF based AMALTHEA ECORE meta model.

For each release of AMALTHEA there will be changes in the meta model contents, due to this it is not possible to load models built from previous releases of AMALTHEA into latest tool distribution.

*Model Migration functionality* is part of this distribution, using this feature it is possible to convert models from previous APP4MC releases (e.g. 0.7.0, 0.7.1, 0.7.2, 0.8.0 ...) to the ones which are compatible to the next versions of AMALTHEA meta model.

_Only forward migration of models is supported by Model Migration functionality of AMALTHEA_

||
{background:#ddd}. | **%{color:brown}From APP4MC 0.9.3 : migration of Amalthea models belonging to legacy versions : ITEA "1.0.3, 1.1.0, 1.1.1" is not supported.%** |
<br></br>||
{background:#ddd}.|If there are Amalthea models beloning to legacy versions ITEA "1.0.3 or 1.1.0 or 1.1.1", use one of the APP4MC version till 0.9.2 and convert the models into one of the APP4MC model version. <br></br> - These models can be used as input for model migration to next versions of APP4MC Amalthea model |
